A common technique for optimizing a heavy
application is to break it
up into smaller modules or
pieces that get loaded lazily or
when the user requests.
So, imagine you have an application
that has let's say 20 features.
And your entire payload is massive
that I've seen applications
sometimes being 20 megabytes large,
very large.
And unfortunately the first time
you go to an application like this,
you have to download the entire
payload to make that work.
And so somebody is waiting a very
long time for the application to
just even do its first meaningful
content paint in for to render.
And so the idea is,
what if we only loaded the pieces
that we needed when we needed them?
And so, a strategy for this or
how you approach this is going
to depend on your circumstances and
more importantly on your users behavior.
So for instance, if you have
an application that has five features,
and your users spend 90% of their
time in two of those features,
I would recommend loading
those in the initial bundle.
But if the other 10% of
their time is spent randomly
accessing the other three features,
then you could,
one break those three up into a second
module or into individual modules.
So then you have your initial module and
maybe three other smaller modules.
And so this really is going to depend on
how your users use your application and
where kind of the behavior is
distributed across your entire feature.
So you could split it up in half,
you could do a lazy module for each.
The one thing that I do wanna point
out that most people will say,
like well the more modules the better,
that just makes sense, right?
Well, especially in countries that
have an underdeveloped infrastructure,
like third world countries or
even drought in like a rural area.
And you are on a like a 3G network or
something equivalent.
The most expensive operation
you can do on that device
is to make an XHR callback to the server.
The reason being is
that unlike a computer,
a phone has to activate
hardware pin the tower,
do a handshake, then get the thing and
then complete it.
And so,
in some cases it is a lot better for
the user to have a larger payload but
reduce the calls over the wire.
So, I just want to put that out
there that this is a balance
that making XHR calls to
a server is also expensive,
and if you're on a handheld device,
it's very expensive.
So, depending on your user base,
you may want to factor that in.
So, with that said, let's talk about
how to implement a lazy module.
And so, I'm going to go into the code and
I'm going to walk through some code
that I have preemptively generated and
just show you what we are starting with.
So, when you are lazy loading a module,
naturally you need a module,
and so this looks exactly like any
other module that we would create.
So, very similar to our app module, and
you'll notice here that
we have our component,
we also have our lazy routing module.
And if we step into this,
then what you're gonna
see is that we have a route defined for or
think of this as a top level
component that we have
a top level route for
this particular module.
As well as we're doing router module for
child because this is going to be
added in as a child module and
we're not loading this into the route.
And so, this is very similar in
structure philosophically to the app
module over here and its relationship
to the app routing module.
And so in order for this to work,
we are going to create a route for
this that's going to be a little different
than anything we've seen up to this point.
So, we're going to create a path and
it's going to be lazy.
And then from here,
we are going to instead
of calling component because
there is not a component,
we are going to instead
call load children.
And this is going to store a function,
and so
load children is essentially
when we go to this that
angle under the hood is
going to call load children.
And then execute the logic that we
put in to this particular function.
And so from here, what we're going
to do is we're going to import or
call the import method and
we're going to give it a path to
the module that we want to load.
So in this case, it's
examples/lazy-module/lazy-module,module.
So, I feel like this is either
a vocal warm up, a tongue twister or
a funny joke, and
at this point I'm trolling everybody.
And then from here we are going to,
because this is going to return a promise,
we are going to resolve
this using that then.
And this is something I don't understand
why this, they did it like this.
Well, I believe the reason why it is
a promise, once I think about it for
like two seconds is that this is
only ever going to resolve once.
And so a promise in this case,
I believe would make sense.
And so from here, this is going to take
in a single parameter which is m for
module, just as c is for cookie,
that's good enough for me.
And then we're going to define
the module that we want to load,
so in this case it's
pulling in the module.
And then because within this module here,
this is called LazyModule,
then it's going ahead and
then essentially bootstrapping that
module into the angular runtime.
And so, just to recap before
we check this out, same path,
the difference is that we're
giving it a function that when
we call this it's gonna say loadChildren.
And it's going to import the module and
from here then it's just going
to return the module itself,
the angular module that we want
to essentially instantiate or
initialize or bootstrap into the runtime.
So now if I go here and
I go to lazy module,
you'll see here that
this is a lazy module.
Now, one thing I do wanna
do is let me go ahead and
I'm gonna just clear my cache, Clear data.
If we come back here, and we go to
the Network tab, I'm going to refresh.
And, you'll notice here that this,
one of the things
that was loaded after it loaded everything
else, is this particular module.
And, so I think I can zoom this
up just a bit without loosing it,
is that this is pulling
this over the wire.
So, it's wrapping up this module,
the lazy module,
into a kind of a standalone
separate module.
And then when we request it,
then it's pulling in the entire
module over the wire and
then loading it into the application.
And so this is where if we built another
one or we had a number of lazy modules.
Every time you navigated
to that lazy module,
what you would see would be the bundle for
that module coming over the wire.
And so, executing lazy modules or
implementing them is fairly
straightforward, you simply treat
the piece that you want to isolate.
So, a lot of times this might
be a standalone feature set or
even a bit of functionality that is or
a couple pieces of functionality.
But these go into a module and
in a way you have to treat that like
almost like a separate application.
So a lot of times you'll have separate
routes for it, for routing table.
As well as one thing that you
can run into problems is that
within the module,
if you have dependencies,
you need to add those dependencies
to that standalone module as well.
So that when it's bundled that it has
the dependencies that it needs and
it's not dependent on the parent module.
So in this case,
because I was using material within our
lazy module,
I needed to import that as well.
And so this is how lazy modules
work within an angular application.